README.md, before:

# EduLearn - Learning Management System

A modern, full-stack Learning Management System built with Next.js, Node.js, Express, and PostgreSQL.

## Architecture

- **Frontend**: Next.js 13+ with App Router, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS, shadcn/ui
- **Backend**: Node.js + Express with TypeScript
- **Database**: PostgreSQL with connection pooling
- **Authentication**: JWT-based with role-based access control

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- PostgreSQL 12+
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. **Clone and install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm run setup
   ```

2. **Database Setup**:
   ```bash
   # Create PostgreSQL database
   createdb edulearn_db
   
   # Run the database initialization script
   psql -d edulearn_db -f supabase/migrations/20250611161614_smooth_wood.sql
   ```

3. **Environment Configuration**:
   ```bash
   # Frontend environment
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   
   # Backend environment
   cd backend
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit backend/.env with your database credentials
   ```

4. **Start the application**:
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1: Start backend API
   npm run backend:dev
   
   # Terminal 2: Start frontend
   npm run dev
   ```

## Demo Credentials

The application comes with pre-configured demo accounts:

- **Student**: `student@demo.com` / `password123`
- **Teacher**: `teacher@demo.com` / `password123`
- **Admin**: `admin@demo.com` / `password123`

## Features

### Authentication & Authorization
- JWT-based authentication
- Role-based access control (Student, Teacher, Admin)
- Secure password hashing with bcrypt
- Token refresh mechanism

### User Roles

#### Students
- View and enroll in courses
- Track learning progress
- Submit assignments
- View grades and feedback

#### Teachers
- Create and manage courses
- Manage student enrollments
- Create and grade assignments
- View student analytics

#### Administrators
- Manage all users and courses
- System-wide analytics
- Platform configuration

### Security Features
- Input validation and sanitization
- Rate limiting
- CORS protection
- Helmet security headers
- SQL injection prevention

## API Documentation

The backend API is available at `http://localhost:3001/api`

### Authentication Endpoints
- `POST /api/auth/register` - User registration
- `POST /api/auth/login` - User login
- `GET /api/auth/me` - Get current user
- `POST /api/auth/refresh` - Refresh access token

### Health Check
- `GET /api/health` - API status

## Development

### Project Structure

```
edulearn-lms/
├── app/                 # Next.js app directory
├── components/          # React components
├── lib/                # Utilities and configurations
├── backend/            # Express API server
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── controllers/
│   │   ├── middleware/
│   │   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── services/
│   │   └── types/
│   └── database/
└── supabase/migrations/ # Database schema
```

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start frontend development server
- `npm run backend:dev` - Start backend development server
- `npm run setup` - Install all dependencies
- `npm run build` - Build for production

## Database Schema

The application uses PostgreSQL with the following main tables:

- **users** - User accounts and profiles
- **courses** - Course information
- **enrollments** - Student course enrollments
- **assignments** - Course assignments
- **submissions** - Assignment submissions

## Environment Variables

### Frontend (.env.local)
```
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:3001/api
```

### Backend (.env)
```
PORT=3001
NODE_ENV=development
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_PORT=5432
DB_NAME=edulearn_db
DB_USER=postgres
DB_PASSWORD=your_password
JWT_SECRET=your-jwt-secret
JWT_REFRESH_SECRET=your-refresh-secret
FRONTEND_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

## Production Deployment

1. Set up PostgreSQL database
2. Configure environment variables
3. Build the frontend: `npm run build`
4. Build the backend: `cd backend && npm run build`
5. Start the production servers
6. Configure reverse proxy (nginx recommended)
7. Enable HTTPS

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

Commit message:

added login functionality and designed schema for the database
1.Implemented login feature to all the user through the database

2.developed the complete schema for the database

3. check migrations.sql for more info

README.md, after:

# EduLearn - Learning Management System

A modern, full-stack Learning Management System built with Next.js, Node.js, Express, and PostgreSQL.

## Architecture

- **Frontend**: Next.js 13+ with App Router, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS, shadcn/ui
- **Backend**: Node.js + Express with TypeScript
- **Database**: PostgreSQL with connection 
- **Authentication**: JWT-based with role-based access control

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- PostgreSQL 12+
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. **Clone and install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm run setup
   ```

2. **Database Setup**:
   ```bash
   # Create PostgreSQL database
   createdb edulearn_db
   
   # Run the database initialization script
   psql -d edulearn_db -f supabase/migrations/20250611161614_smooth_wood.sql
   ```

3. **Environment Configuration**:
   ```bash
   # Frontend environment
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   
   # Backend environment
   cd backend
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit backend/.env with your database credentials
   ```

4. **Start the application**:
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1: Start backend API
   npm run backend:dev
   
   # Terminal 2: Start frontend
   npm run dev
   ```

## Demo Credentials

The application comes with pre-configured demo accounts:

- **Student**: `student@demo.com` / `password123`
- **Teacher**: `teacher@demo.com` / `password123`
- **Admin**: `admin@demo.com` / `password123`



## 🎯 User Roles & Permissions

### 👨‍🎓 **Students**
- ✅ Browse and enroll in courses
- ✅ View course materials and resources
- ✅ Submit assignments and track progress
- ✅ View grades and teacher feedback
- ✅ Access personal dashboard and analytics
- ✅ Manage profile and settings

### 👨‍🏫 **Teachers**
- ✅ Create and manage courses
- ✅ Upload course materials and resources
- ✅ Create assignments and assessments
- ✅ Grade submissions and provide feedback
- ✅ View student analytics and progress
- ✅ Manage student enrollments
- ✅ Schedule events and announcements

### 👨‍💼 **Administrators**
- ✅ Full system access and management
- ✅ User account management (create, edit, delete)
- ✅ Course oversight and management
- ✅ System-wide analytics and reporting
- ✅ Platform configuration and settings
- ✅ Event and announcement management

## Features

### Authentication & Authorization
- JWT-based authentication
- Role-based access control (Student, Teacher, Admin)
- Secure password hashing with bcrypt
- Token refresh mechanism

### User Roles

#### Students
- View and enroll in courses
- Track learning progress
- Submit assignments
- View grades and feedback

#### Teachers
- Create and manage courses
- Manage student enrollments
- Create and grade assignments
- View student analytics

#### Administrators
- Manage all users and courses
- System-wide analytics
- Platform configuration

### Security Features
- Input validation and sanitization
- Rate limiting
- CORS protection
- Helmet security headers
- SQL injection prevention

## API Documentation

The backend API is available at `http://localhost:3001/api`

### Authentication Endpoints
- `POST /api/auth/register` - User registration
- `POST /api/auth/login` - User login
- `GET /api/auth/me` - Get current user
- `POST /api/auth/refresh` - Refresh access token

### Health Check
- `GET /api/health` - API status

## Development

### Project Structure

```
edulearn-lms/
├── app/                 # Next.js app directory
├── components/          # React components
├── lib/                # Utilities and configurations
├── backend/            # Express API server
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── controllers/
│   │   ├── middleware/
│   │   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── services/
│   │   └── types/
│   └── database/
└── supabase/migrations/ # Database schema
```

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start frontend development server
- `npm run backend:dev` - Start backend development server
- `npm run setup` - Install all dependencies
- `npm run build` - Build for production

## Database Schema

The application uses PostgreSQL with the following main tables:

- **users** - User accounts and profiles
- **courses** - Course information
- **enrollments** - Student course enrollments
- **assignments** - Course assignments
- **submissions** - Assignment submissions

## Environment Variables

### Frontend (.env.local)
```
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:3001/api
```

### Backend (.env)
```
PORT=3001
NODE_ENV=development
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_PORT=5432
DB_NAME=edulearn_db
DB_USER=postgres
DB_PASSWORD=your_password
JWT_SECRET=your-jwt-secret
JWT_REFRESH_SECRET=your-refresh-secret
FRONTEND_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

## Production Deployment

1. Set up PostgreSQL database
2. Configure environment variables
3. Build the frontend: `npm run build`
4. Build the backend: `cd backend && npm run build`
5. Start the production servers
6. Configure reverse proxy (nginx recommended)
7. Enable HTTPS

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details
